---
layout: page
title: Day 37-42 3/7/16-8/7/16
---
Last time around, the plan was to test the algorithm on our user data-streams. I got access to the website and also the API to extract the data. But, there are some issues with the existing data. As of now, there are user profiles and they can share content on their page but there is no kind of interaction between the users. Even, there is no option to look at some other user's profile. Maybe the website I have got access to is some old one and there exists some practically useable data elsewhere.

Anyway, there were some other issues to be addressed too and my major focus was on solving them. Currently, my model is offline based. I need to convert it into an online model because we will keep on recieving user streams continuously. I learnt about what online learning is and have sort of an idea how I need to tweak my code. Also, Nishit helped me with key differences between online and offline learning and that was really helpful.

For my existing model, it seemed a bit weird to convert it into an online learning based model because it wouldn't make much sense. So, I googled about facebook's newsfeed algorithm to know how it works. Apparently, fb keeps their algorithm secret, but at a TechCrunch event, they had given a very brief idea of how their algorithm works. The following links were useful in learning about it-

https://techcrunch.com/2010/04/22/facebook-edgerank/

https://edgerank.net

Then, I brainstormed for 2 days to come up with something similar to fb's algorithm and at the same time trying to integrate collaborative filtering in it. I have come up with the idea and collaborative filtering is a major part of it. But, the remaining part is abstract now and will depend on in what format I get my inputs. Before I get those, it doesn't make sense to work on it. 

After the idea was ready, I looked out for some existing datasets of social networking. I did find some useful stuff on the following links-

https://snap.stanford.edu/data/

http://socialcomputing.asu.edu/pages/datasets

But, I am unable to comprehend what do various things in these dataset represent.


I have been trying to contact my mentors but this week has been really annoying. No one is resonding to any of my queries and that has slowed down my work a lot- in the sense that I have to explore all the paths available and decide upon what all is useful for me. In a sense that is good, because not every time some mentors will be available in life. But, some times, it gets really really frustrating. In this case because, I have the algorithm ready but can't code the things that I need to modify as they depend on inputs. Also, no mentor has reviewed my algorithm. Though I have discussed it with Kanishk and Nishit and they are positive that the algorithm seems correct, but, still, the mentors have better knowledge and it might be the case that I am missing on something very crucial in the algorithm.

Let's hope to hear from them soon.
